Name: Oceane Andreis
Problem Set 9


1.Watch Disability and Innovation, answer the following questions with complete sentences:
What are 3 specific tools/techniques that Haben Girma talks about that deaf and deafblind individuals use to communicate?

The 3 specific tools/techniques are digital Braille display, sign Language(ASL), tactile sign language(put hands on the person's hands and feel what they sign), and print On palm(where people write on palms).


What are 3 kinds of rights that Helen Keller advocated for? Why does Haben Girma talk about Helen Keller?

Helen Keller advocated for Women's rights, Disability rights, and Worker's rights.

Helen Keller was an amazing advocate who fought for many rights. Many thought it was incredible for her to do what she was doing despite her having disabilities. But disabilities never holds anyone back it is not something people need to overcome.


According to Haben Girma, why do barriers exist? Name one barrier you have observed and one thing you think could be done to lower it.

According to Haben Girma the barriers that exist are created by society.
One barrier I've observed is someone's socioeconomic status. Where one's socioeconomic status is the determinant of one's financial stability, income, and educational level. Which is correlated with different social status(race, health etc...). That barriers blocks people from being able to apply certain jobs and access certain services(for example, mental health services). 


What are 3 different accessibility features that Haben Girma references specific to software/computer technology?

The 3 different accessibility features that Haben Girma references are VoiceOver which is a screen reader that will translate informations into speech and braille. The next one is Dynamic Type which is for people who are low vision, it'll make the font size bigger. Then there is Captioning which adds text to video or audio. 
(We need support for Assistive Devices - Braille displays, switch controls(help people with limited mobility))



When should you start planning on incorporating accessibility features into your application? What metaphor does Girma use to illustrate this point?

You should start planning on incorporating accessibility features from the start.  
The metaphor she used to illustrate this point was building a skyscraper without putting an elevator and then having to tear down part of the building to add the elevator.


Who does accessibility increase access for? How?

Accessibility increase access for everyone. 20% of Americans have a disability. There is an increase in content discovery and innovation when accessibility is implemented. It is important to include everyone. Which also includes non disabled users. For example, in this video having the caption on helps the watcher capture more of the information(especially when English is not their first language). 


What are the two inventions that Girma mentions that were originally invented to address issues of accessibility?

The two inventions that Girma mentions that were originally invented to address issues of accessibility were the typewrite and the email.
Turri built the first typewriter that didn't require vision and that only required touch.
Cerf created email to communicate without using hearing which made it also possible to communicate from long distance. 

What is the last area that Haben Girma mentions as a place where we rarely seek innovation but has a lot of potential? Why does she say that this area has a lot of potential?

last area that Haben Girma mentions as a place where we rarely seek innovation but has a lot of potential is Haptics. Haptics means communicating information through touch. Considering skin is our largest organ haptics has so much potential. Like touch can give signals and transmit information.


2. Pick a website that you visit at least once a week. Answer the following questions about that website. Use complete sentences.

What is the website? (doesn't have to be a complete sentence)
https://www.youtube.com/

What are three aspects of this website that help it be more accessible?
Its videos have caption and it has transcript that let's us read the whole video.
On Android Mobile phone, youtube works with android's accessibility features such as Talk Back and BrailledBack.https://support.google.com/accessibility/android/answer/6006564?hl=en&ref_topic=6007234
From your keyboard you can also increase and decrease the font size of the captions.


What are the accessibility critiques of this website? Do research to find reports about how well tools such as screen readers work on this site. Summarize the critiques you find and link your sources in your answer.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QiuT0y0KR6I
This shows how a screen reader can work.

https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/189278?hl=en
Youtube has a comprehensive article on screen readers.

http://wave.webaim.org/report#/https://www.youtube.com/
The accessibility critiques of this website showed by the report mentions many ARIA. ARIA provides enhanced semantics and accessibility for web content. Youtube is missing some text alternatives and some interactive functionality that must be keyboard operable. Youtube's website isn't fully accessible. It is however making major effort to be accessible.


Propose some changes to the site that might address the critiques in #3. What are the pros/cons of these changes?

I propose that the site adds text alternatives to describes links/buttons/images. I also propose they review their design to make sure their website passes all the guidelines. Additionally, some of their buttons have a contrast that can be hard to see for some people.
The pros of these changes would be that this would make youtube more inclusive and since youtube is such a massive and popular website it would most likely influence other website to do more work in the accessibility department. The cons of these changes is that it'll take a while to implement those and to test if they actually are beneficial. 